OBSDOCS-866: (TRACING-3922) Configure OTEL to scrape in-cluster monitoring stack (#73313)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/otel-config-receive-metrics-monitoring-stack.adoc

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: otel-collector
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: cluster-monitoring-view # <1>
subjects:
  - kind: ServiceAccount
    name: otel-collector
    namespace: observability
---
kind: ConfigMap
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: cabundle
  namespce: observability
  annotations:
    service.beta.openshift.io/inject-cabundle: "true" # <2>
---
apiVersion: opentelemetry.io/v1alpha1
kind: OpenTelemetryCollector
metadata:
  name: otel
  namespace: observability
spec:
  volumeMounts:
    - name: cabundle-volume
      mountPath: /etc/pki/ca-trust/source/service-ca
      readOnly: true
  volumes:
    - name: cabundle-volume
      configMap:
        name: cabundle
  mode: deployment
  config: |
    receivers:
      prometheus: # <3>
        config:
          scrape_configs:
            - job_name: 'federate'
              scrape_interval: 15s
              scheme: https
              tls_config:
                ca_file: /etc/pki/ca-trust/source/service-ca/service-ca.crt
              bearer_token_file: /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/token

>               honor_labels: true

Reviewer: This should be change to `false` more details are in https://issues.redhat.com/browse/TRACING-4139

Author: So I just update it from `true` to `false`? This is all?

Reviewer: yes that is all

Author: Done.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * observability/otel/otel-configuring-metrics-for-monitoring-stack.adoc

> :_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE

Author: Thank you for raising this issue. I am aware of it. My plan is to keep it as a reference module for now and look into revising this page as procedure modules. In any case, any reference module requires user actions.

[id="configuration-for-receiving-metrics-from-the-monitoring-stack_{context}"]
= Configuration for receiving metrics from the monitoring stack

> A configured OpenTelemetry Collector custom resource (CR) can configure the Prometheus receiver to scrape metrics from the in-cluster monitoring stack.

Reviewer 2: Using "configured" and "configure" in the same sentence is a bit awkward. I think you could improve it by saying something like this:

```suggestion
By configuring an OpenTelemetry Collector custom resource (CR), you can enable the Prometheus receiver to scrape metrics from the in-cluster monitoring stack.
```

Author: Thank you for suggesting a rewording here. I replaced the second instance of "configure" with "set up".

> .Example of the OpenTelemetry Collector CR for scraping metrics from the in-cluster monitoring stack

Author: Thank you. I'll keep this fact in mind. I'll discuss how to mention this fact with the engineering team.

---
kind: ConfigMap
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: cabundle
  namespce: observability
  annotations:
    service.beta.openshift.io/inject-cabundle: "true" # <2>
---
apiVersion: opentelemetry.io/v1alpha1
kind: OpenTelemetryCollector
metadata:
  name: otel
  namespace: observability
spec:
  volumeMounts:
    - name: cabundle-volume
      mountPath: /etc/pki/ca-trust/source/service-ca
      readOnly: true
  volumes:
    - name: cabundle-volume
      configMap:
        name: cabundle
  mode: deployment
  config: |
    receivers:
      prometheus: # <3>
        config:
          scrape_configs:
            - job_name: 'federate'
              scrape_interval: 15s
              scheme: https
              tls_config:
                ca_file: /etc/pki/ca-trust/source/service-ca/service-ca.crt
              bearer_token_file: /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/token
              honor_labels: true
              params:
                'match[]':
                  - '{__name__="<metric_name>"}' # <4>
              metrics_path: '/federate'
              static_configs:
                - targets:
                  - "prometheus-k8s.openshift-monitoring.svc.cluster.local:9091"

> 

Author: Yes, last time I checked, the engineering team was happy with this. But I'll double-check because of the style.

    exporters:
      debug: # <5>
        verbosity: detailed

> 

Author: @pavolloffay, can I remove these blank lines from here?

Reviewer: empty lines can be removed

    service:
      pipelines:
        metrics:
          receivers: [prometheus]
          processors: []
          exporters: [debug]
----
<1> Assigns the `cluster-monitoring-view` cluster role to the service account of the OpenTelemetry Collector so that it can access the metrics data.
<2> Injects the OpenShift service CA for configuring the TLS in the Prometheus receiver.
<3> Configures the Prometheus receiver to scrape the federate endpoint from the in-cluster monitoring stack.

> <4> Uses the Prometheus query language to select the metrics to be scraped. See the in-cluster monitoring documentation for more details and limitations of the federate endpoint.

Author: Thank you for the suggestion. This module is just before the assembly-level additional resource. Also, the additional resource is from a different location in the OpenShift docs, so I have no control over its placement.
